#QUEST JacobVanBerg_Journal
Jacob van Berg's journal
#TEXT 1
... I had enough of this ban on plundering English merchants!
It doesn't make sense! To sink ships which could be looted!
... I am fed up with this 'Flying Dutchman' idea, it was funny and profitable in the beginning but now it's time to end this.
... I am tired of these idiotic missions from my employer. The last order was to recall the coordinates of the place where I sank that English fluyt. There have been so many fluyts since then! The only thing I remember is that I've was sailing at latitude 12 degrees 48`.
... I am also sick of waiting for this yellow-skinned chink messenger, it's been weeks. If he doesn't arrive in two days then I will sail back to Boca De La Sierpe bay, take my ship and leave this mess await behind.
#TEXT 2
... have to catch another victim - some idiot who bought the 'Valkyrie' from that half-dead Fleetwood. The guy is sailing to Blueweld now and his ship is filled with slaves...
... this hunt is going to be my last one, I had enough of playing the monster, it's time to take my leave because my last conversation with the master was quite unpleasant. He is still demanding me to recall where I had sunk that British fluyt. It was like ages ago, the only thing I remember is that the latitude was 12 degrees 48'. He is even trying to scare me with that yellow-skin bastard. No, I've got enough of these 'ghost' games. It's time to do something serious and get away from here back to Europe...
... I suppose I should change my flag from 'Mirage' to 'Valkyrie'. She is coming to my hands anyway. I don't give a damn about master's wish to deliver her to Esmeralda bay. This landlubber already owns 'Meifeng', fuck him, he won't get 'Valkyrie' too!

#QUEST Fleetwood_Journal
Richard Fleetwood's journal
#TEXT 1
... poor Abi is begging me to find that island where I found her and her father. Damn, I wish I could remember where it all happened. Longitude 64 degrees 41' - it's all I remember. I saw the 'Flying Dutchman' there and tried to chase her. I failed but I've found that island with Abi and her father instead. It seems that the old Jew thinks that I was the guy who sank their ship. I hope that sweet Abi doesn't think the same way.
... we almost got proof of Rodenburg's connection to 'Flying Dutchman'. Good old Charlie said that she has changed her base location to Castle Bruce Bay on Dominica. My hopes are that we will soon see an end of the story before the cannibals tear them apart. This is going to be quite a story!
... would be helpful to expose our rat in Bridgetown. I hope it is not the governor, but who else is so informed about planned trade routes and patrols?

#QUEST Merdok_Archive
The last pages of Johan van Merden's archive
#TEXT 1
... that was expected. I know Lucas too well. There will be no rest for me after his promotion...
... that 'Flying Dutchman' idea is a nice example of how Rodenburg does business. He won't leave me in peace. I am locking my pharmacy, I have to prepare myself for a siege while waiting for a ship which will take me out of the Caribbean...
... it looks like that Lucas' new agent is a good fellow, I don't want to kill him in case that bastard will send him to St. John's. Though it is much better than to die by the hands of Ostin's lads. Lucas is able to hire them. He is fairly stuffed with coins...
#TEXT 2
... that 'Flying Dutchman' idea is a nice example of how Rodenburg does business. It seriously sabotaged the English merchants' activity...
... Joachim Merriman has fulfilled his part of the bargain and paid well for the nephrite skull. Half of a million pieces of eight, quite a sum...
... after that Merriman asked all to leave him, he wanted to prepare some kind of a trap for those, who will come here to find us. Tonzag decided to go and see the trap. An hour later, the Portuguese came back alone, he darkly joked that Tonzag shouldn't have come after him but still he helped a lot...

#QUEST LetterToAbi
Richard Fleetwood's letter to Abigail
#TEXT 1
"Dear Abi! As I promised, I am taking you to me in St.John's. This messenger is my best friend, his name is Charlie. You can trust him. He will take you to Antigua, don't hesitate to follow him. I know about your misfortunes, I promise that I will compensate your father's money in the nearest occasion and nothing will stand between us. Looking forward to see you.
Richard."

#QUEST LetterToFleetwood
Letter to Richard Fleetwood with terms of ransom for Abigail
#TEXT 1
I have your Abigail and you will never find her. She became my 'guest' after I had boarded your fellow's ship. The price is 200,000 pesos. You have plenty of coin according to your letter. Let's meet on Turks Island at the Northern bay. Come alone on your brig. Don't even dare to harm or follow my messenger, I will be watching. In case my messenger doesn't leave your home in 30 minutes or is followed, I will send you a box with a finger and an ear of your beloved. And if he won't carry any response or won't leave your place, then I will cut off Abi's head and send it to you. I hope that you'll be reasonable, Englishman, Abi's life is in your hands. 200,000 pesos is the price and if I don't get it, you will receive your girl in pieces.
Mr. Evil

#QUEST FleetwoodAnswer
Response from Richard Fleetwood
#TEXT 1
I agree with your terms, Mr. Evil. See you on Turks, I will bring the money you want. Don't harm Abigail or I will spend what is rest of my life to avenge her.
Richard Fleetwood

#QUEST LetterToLucas
Letter to Lucas Rodenburg from Richard Fleetwood
#TEXT 1
You are finished, Rodenburg. I have arrested that chemist John Murdock for being a Dutch agent and I also have confiscated a pretty interesting archive. The man didn't last long... and now I have a cipher key. I've got a solid proof of your connection to the'Flying Dutchman' business or, to put it right, to your fellow Jacob van Berg who has been hunting for English ships. There are a lot of sweet facts in that archive, I'll tell you. I can promise you a multi-national scandal, your own bosses will turn away from you when they'll know what you've done. Though I've been thinking... perhaps, you should prepare ten millions in exchange for the archive?...
Richard Fleetwood

#QUEST LetterFromGaston
Letter from Callow Gaston
#TEXT 1
If you are reading this, it means that I am dead by now.
You did well in fooling me with that slave stuff. No one was ever able to trick Hercule Tonzag. That is my actual name. Or it was.
The man who has killed me is also a very dangerous threat for you. That is the reason why I will help you to survive and you will revenge him for my death. It is a pity that we were enemies in this life. We had a lot of things in common and we could work together.
Don't trust anyone, especially that English spy. He had sent you to your death, he didn't even tell you that the whole Caribbean is hunting the captain of 'Valkyrie' and the governor of Curacao will pay a great sum for his head.
Too many Dutchmen were sent to sharks by your fellow. He has got almost an equal count with that bastard Van Berg.
I am sure that I didn't know all of that. So keep a distance from your Englishman if you want to live. Why should you care about this bloody politics?
But there is a man who is much more dangerous. It's Lucas Rodenburg, the biggest enemy of your friend. Being a Fleetwood's helper is enough to found yourself in his black list. A vice director of the Company, under protection of soldiers and patrols, you won't get him. But there is a way.
Find a chemist in St. John's. His name is John Murdock. He was the right hand of Lucas Rodenburg. I was working for him and Lucas decided to get rid of us both. It doesn't matter who has killed me, Longway or lads from the League. I was killed by the order of Rodenburg. He will do the same to you if you won't strike first.
Find the chemist before Lucas. His actual name is van Merden and he will likely be hiding in the dungeons of St.John's. Tell him that you've come from me. He will assist you in your justice. He has got a thing to lure Lucas from Curacao. And you are doing such kind of things well.
Good luck to you, stranger! Remember Hercule Tonzag.
This name was only known by me and van Merden. Now you know it too.

#QUEST	LetterFromFleetwood
Farewells from Richard Fleetwood
#TEXT	1
Farewell, my trustful friend!
I had to cheat you out of my love to Abigail. Don't judge me, she is the only one who matters to me. I couldn't trust you with such an important talk with her father. To be honest, my eyes are actually not that bad. It is much easier for me to tell you that in this letter. Trust me, it is better for us both.
I paid Solomon, took Abigail, and now I am out of the game for good. I can't risk her life and her happiness. The 'Valkyrie' is sailing to London while you are reading this letter.
You are alone against Rodenburg and his mercs now. I hope that you will make it alive. My loyal Charlie has rejected returning back to England, and it seems that he disobeyed my orders for the first time. I don't really like it myself. Charlie will give you some gold. May it smooth over your disappointment.
Hire Charlie as your gunner. He will serve you as long as you don't spoil your honor like I did.
I wish you luck and victory!
P.S. An Indian shaman told me that undead can protect treasure if they were cursed by some local spell and a part of the body was put inside the chest. That is the reason why Gaston's head was found inside a chest on the island.
That monster you've met is called Chavinavi. According to local tales, they are the minions of Yum Cimil - the Mayan God of Death. The man who summoned it is a very powerful sorcerer. That is another reason why I am taking Abi away. I am scared. And not for myself. Abi is pregnant. Good luck!

#QUEST LetterToMerdok
Letter to Johan van Merden from Lucas Rodenburg
#TEXT 1

Johan! You know me, I will get your stupid archive anyway. The only question is, will it be brought to me by you, or by Ostin' boys. I don't even need your cipher, though I am aware that you are hiding it somewhere in your pit. I just want to burn those papers myself.
You won't leave Antigua. I give you a last chance to survive for our old friendship.
I will be waiting for you in our old place. Longway will deliver the message. I know that you've got him attached to you for some reason, and I will not be surprised if he won't come back. He will deliver the message and you will read it. That is why the Chinese will return on his own this time. 'Meifeng' has a new captain now.
I don't need your life. I only don't want any surprises from my past. You can keep the Jew's gold and the money received from the Portuguese for the Indian skull for yourself.
Know, van Merden, I am waiting for you, but my patience has its limits. And when it reaches them, the League will deal with you.
Your old friend and commander,
Lucas.

#QUEST LSC_Alvorado
Caribbean Chronicles - Cursed Place
#TEXT 1

Trip notes of Ignacio Alvarado, captain of the 'Santiago' galleon.
20.06.1620
I have no idea, seniors, what we have done to deserve such a fate. For what sins? I don't have any answers but I will tell you what I was able to see. I swear by the Holy Virgin that it is all true!
Summer, 1620. My name is Ignacio Alvarado, I am the captain of the galleon 'Santiago'. We were sailing from Havana to Vera Cruz when the deadly storm hit us. We lost control of our ship and had to drift to the North. We were hit by huge waves for a week, but our ship was tough enough. Its hull survived and one day we found ourselves near a strange island, which was basically a ship cemetery.
It was huge, a lot of debris without any sign of life. We took our ship's boat to explore this strange place. I saw a small pass through the debris and soon we reached the center of this cemetery - a huge warship called 'San Augustine'...
28.06.1620
... Surprisingly, it was quiet there, no sign of winds. Me and the men were attacked when we got to the warship's deck. Strange black monsters. Their numbers were large and we had to surrender.
... the island was inhabited. All races and nationalities are represented there. All of them are victims of shipwrecks from the last fifty years. Thank God, they had considered us their own kind. They don't know that our ship survived. Justice Island. That is how they call it. But I will name it 'The City of Abandoned Ships'. That is the only name such a place deserves.
Two clans own this island. Unfortunately, we were captured by the Rivados clan. Offsprings of savages, they treat white men like we treat Africans and Indians. Our small boat was confiscated and we were taken to 'San Geronimo' to be sacrificed according to local traditions, to some stone idol. I noticed that the ship was going to sink in the near future and feared that we...
29.06.1620
... the Narwhal clan is their enemy. White men, mostly consisting of offspring of the first white locals. Lucky for us, they attacked the ship to free their comrades. And we were saved. Narwals told us that we were one hour close to being sacrificed. Our position became a bit better but we still were captives of the Island because we don't have any opportunity to get our...
03.07.1620
... there are a lot of treasures inside the cargo holds, clothes, arms, tools, rum, wine, and spice. Though provisions of supplies and victuals are quite limited. That is the reason why local clans consider 'San Augustine' as neutral territory. It is a gate to that pass through debris. Only small boats can sail there and locals have plenty of them to trade with smugglers. Treasures for food. That is how it works. Gold has no worth here...
05.07.1620
... not much left. Locals don't trust each other, hiding their belongings inside the chests with strong locks. Some skillful swimmers are trying to dive and search at the bottom. They say that there are lots of treasures. They must be really brave to dive so deep. Giant enemy crabs live there. The scariest thing is that I've seen them! Big claws and poisonous jaws. Sometimes they reach the surface and...
07.07.1620
Despite our skin color, the Narwals don't trust us. Perhaps they are heretics, Dutchers, and Englishmen who hate true Catholics. Or they perhaps just fear that we can bring Spanish soldiers here to end their anarchy. Anyway, they didn't invite us to one of their small boats to sail to Cuba to trade.
... secretly from the Narwhals, I have written sailing directions of this Island. Perhaps, His Excellency Sancho de Alkis, the general of Cuba, might find it useful to reach this place and end it.
15.07.1620
A young local man, born in Dublin, Ireland, and a true faithful son of the Church, offered us to escape from the City of Abandoned Ships. It seems that this brave man has figured out that our ship is in one piece. Tomorrow we will steal the Rivados' boat. May the Holy Virgin aid us!
21.07.1620
Success! But once again, we are in the hands of a storm. Our hull is damaged and we have only one day to find a safe place or our fate is going to be unenviable otherwise. All the men are in panic except our brave young Irishman. No doubt, a great future awaits him if we survive this mess...

#QUEST Legend_CapBucher
Caribbean Chronicles - The Legend of Captain Butcher
#TEXT 1

It is unknown where that cruel and reckless pirate came from. Some people considered him a devil, some admired his bravery and fortune which allowed him to avoid any chase on his frigate called 'Neptune'. His name was known in all taverns across the Archipelago. Butcher didn't spare anyone. Neither his men nor enemies, but his crew was always full because new cutthroats were always welcome. Only the captain, his quartermaster Jacob Jackman, boatswain Henry the Hangman, and his redhead beauty Jessica were invincible. Jessica accompanied Butcher in every raid. They said that she was a daughter of Oliver Rose, a rich planter from Barbados.
That ginger demoness was some sort of talisman for Butcher. But one day our captain fell in love. With the daughter of the famous Nicolas Sharp. He was already dead.
And Butcher wanted to get rid of his Jessica. Either he sold her for a huge sum or just let her go... Nobody had seen Jess since then.
Every second pirate of Isla Tesoro fell in love with Beatrice Sharp and every pirate admired her and was ready to give his life for her. She had a huge variety of suitors and her brother Blaze could choose anyone. It is unknown why he didn't like Butcher but it was something dark between them. Butcher had to steal Beatrice and he did that. They also say that he didn't steal her, she loved him and they eloped.
Butcher had a lot of enemies due to his lifestyle. There was one special enemy who had been chasing him for a long time. The man was wearing an old British uniform and a mask. His real name was already forgotten so they called him the Mask. One day Jessica came to the Mask and said that she knew Butcher's secret. There is a small island in the North, where Butcher established his base and storehouse. Jessica's offer was simple - she helps to organize an ambush but she wanted to take part in it. It seemed that she wanted to avenge herself against her ex-lover. The Mask agreed. He would have never found this island without her help.
No sooner said than done. They didn't have to wait long. Butcher was unlucky to fight with the Spanish. He lost too many men and his ship was badly damaged. They barely got to the island to repair the ship and take some rest. But it was only the beginning! Redcoats attacked them from every corner and were led by Jessica armed with her terrible flame-bladed sword. She killed Beatrice but fell by Butcher's hand.
He didn't stand a chance. His men were killed on the shore. Though, Jackman and the Hangman were not found. The captain was taken to Antigua. The two women were buried together on the island.
Believe it or not, they say that fishermen once landed on that island. The next morning they were found dead. Their wounds were awful, like they had been inflicted by a flamberge. People avoid the island at night since then. Even pirates.
Butcher was executed at Antigua. Hanged like any common pirate. That was the end of his story. The end might be different if he wouldn't have rejected his red talisman.
The Mask didn't live long after that. He was found dead the next day. His throat was cut by a shark tooth. They say that it was Shark Dodson who killed him. They also say that he loved his friend's sister. He had always been carrying a shark tooth on his neck. But he won't tell you anything about it. It was a long time ago...

#QUEST Mask
Caribbean Chronicles - The Masked Man
#TEXT 1

... on 17 June 1634, the frigate 'Neptune' left Glasgow, Scotland for Bridgetown.
The 'Neptune' was carrying not only passengers, letters, and arms for the island's garrison but also transported convicts for Barbados plantations.
This military frigate was not designed for slave transportation, the poor prisoners were held in the small cargo hold without any fresh air, bonded with a single chain.
The importance of those criminals was the prior reason why such a powerful warship was chosen to deliver them. All of them were participating in a government coup. One of them was really notable. Lawrence, a young nobleman from London. Athletic, bold eyes. His mansion was devastated and sold. His father, an ex-corsair of Providence, a wealthy landowner, and a member of the British parliament, wasn't able to get through all of the madness of the civil war and died. This fact made Lawrence change his political view and join other noble plotters against the Lord Protector.
Captain Joshua Leadbeater wasn't happy about being a jailer, yet the presence of a pretty and young passenger, Jessica Rose, brightened up the monotonous voyage. A daughter of a rich planter from Barbados, she completely won the tough captain's heart. Despite the fact that it was his first voyage to the West Indies, two months passed quickly for him.
While approaching the Antilles, the frigate was attacked by pirates who managed to come close enough for boarding. A discordant salvo made a huge hole in the pirate's barque but it wasn't enough. Pirates were close to victory but Leadbeater's command and well-trained sailors had stopped them. Leadbeater could win this fight if the prisoners, commanded by Lawrence, didn't attack him and his men from behind. It was a turning point in the fight. Leadbeater took grapeshot in the face. They thought that he died. His men's morale quickly went down and it was over in half an hour.
After the battle, Lawrence and the pirate captain had a fight because of Jessica. The pirate was going to use her for his crew's amusement. Lawrence was insisting on ransoming her. Words were quickly replaced by swords and the pirate died in a second. Lawrence had been training with the very best of London fencers.
The pirate crew voted for Lawrence and he became the new captain. The barque was left to sink and the same was done with half-dead sailors. Leadbeater was among them, despite the terrible wound across his face, he was able to survive to see Lawrence hugging the girl. The girl he dreamed about.
Thanks to Jacob Jackman, Lawrence got his nickname - Butcher. Soon, this name became known in every tavern from Cuba to Barbados.
Leadbeater's fate didn't let him die. He was picked up by some vessel. His face was completely destroyed, he had to always wear a mask and a wig. Finding Butcher became his obsession and the only meaning of life...

#QUEST RegataLetter
Invitation to Regatta
#TEXT 1

Dear captain! You are invited to participate in the Grand Caribbean Regatta. If you are interested, you should immediately head to Port Royal, to me, the governor-general of Jamaica. Be aware that the only ship type allowed to participate is luggers, so you should prepare your vessel. Don't forget to not take any other ships of your squadron. Squadrons are not allowed in the regatta. We guarantee free access to Port Royal for you.
The fee is 50,000 pesos, it will be your part in the prize money.
Governor-general of the English colonies, Count Edward Doiley.

#QUEST RegataRules
Rules and Terms of Regatta
#TEXT 1

Start and finish - Port Royal, Jamaica.
Route, five voyages in total:

Port Royal (Jamaica) - Belize (West Spanish Main)
Belize (West Spanish Main) - Port-au-Prince (Espanola)
Port-au-Prince (Hispaniola) - St. John's (Antigua)
St. John's (Antigua) - Bridgetown (Barbados)
Bridgetown (Barbados) - Port Royal (Jamaica)
Every participant has to visit the harbor master in every town to check in and register their progress, they will be disqualified otherwise. The offices will be working around the clock during the regatta.
You may not:

Sail with a squadron.
Change your original lugger.
You must keep the prescribed route.
#QUEST Sharlie_Father
A Letter from Henri de Monper
#TEXT 1

Greetings, Charles
I have almost forgotten how you look. You know that I do not appreciate your taste for an idle lifestyle. I have forbidden you from showing yourself on our estate until you have seen reason and followed your brother's example by choosing a more suitable occupation for a nobleman than slapping paint on canvases and the bedsheets of rich courtesans.
But circumstances force me to ask for your help.
Your brother Michel has disappeared. It has been almost a year since I received word from him. The last time he wrote me about his wish to participate in some expedition to the New World and, perhaps, he won't be able to write me regularly. It takes a ship three months to cross the Atlantic. Communications with our colonies are good and mail is getting through.
I am afraid that he might have got into trouble. My letters to our countryman the Chevalier de la Brignais remain unanswered, yet Michel called the man his closest friend and, as far as I know, didn't accompany Michel on his expedition.
I beg you to leave your painting and women, sail to Martinique, and deal with this uncertainty. It is killing me. I am a former naval officer and I would rather know the worst than live with uncertainty.
Unfortunately, I can't give you any money for this trip. Our estate is in decline and a poor crop has ruined me. Michel promised to fix everything after his return, but...
Please, my boy, forget old wounds and do what I ask, perhaps it is the last thing I ask you. You are the only one who can do it for me.
Your father, Henri de Monper
Gascony, 6th April, 1654

#QUEST Sharlie_Father_1
A Letter from Henri de Monper
#TEXT 1

Dear Charles, my beloved son, it's been a long time since you sailed away for the quest to find your brother and it's been even longer since I saw you last. I am happy beyond measure that you took my advice and chose a path worthy of a man of the de Monper name. During our last meeting years ago, I dared not to imagine that you would become an officer of the Navy and would then go even beyond - to the heights of the general-governorship of the New World! I am proud of you, son!
But what happened to Michel? I am being kept in the dark about his fate for years! Not long ago, our estate was visited by the Chevalier la Brignais, but all I managed to find out is that Michel has been accused of something very serious. I hope that you will tell me all about it when you are back in France.
Charles, our family estate is doing a bit better now, yet your help would greatly assist. Nevertheless, I will not put any pressure on you here as I used to do. Just remember that a man is determined only by his actions and deeds. May God Almighty be with you.
Your father, Henri de Monper

#QUEST Sharlie_Shevallie
Letter from Chevalier de La Brignais
#TEXT 1

Monsieur de Maure, it is with deepest regret that I must inform you that your brother Michel de Monper has been accused of serious crimes and he is being held under arrest by the order of the governor-general of the Antilles Philippe de Poincy. This chevalier is our commander and represents the Maltese order in the West Indies. One year ago, a secret expedition was sent under his command, your poor brother was part of it. There are rumors that Martinique was sold to the Order, and perhaps the expedition had something to do with it. I don't know any details. Neither where they hold Michel nor the purpose of that expedition. It is probably a secret that will cost the head of anyone who shows an interest in it.
This information was received from my trusted men. I didn't want to hurt your father with such bad news.
This letter will be brought to you by my servant and he will burn it as soon as you read it. I risk my career and my life, but I can't stand aside when my friend is in trouble. He once saved my life on the walls of Barcelona.
Perhaps, you will manage to save your brother and set things right, I don't believe in his guilt. I am bound by my oath to the Order, so I cannot provide more help. It is all in your hands now.
I rely on your wisdom and nobility.
Chevalier de La Brignais
Malta, 15th June, 1654

#QUEST Sharlie_Lover
Note from Lulu
#TEXT 1

Sweet Charles! My heart is broken, yet I have to ask you to run away from Paris as soon as possible. No doubt, my husband is aware of our trysts. He won't dare to hurt me due to my position but you are in great danger, my love.
Our brave cuckold should take his soldiers to Flanders at Christmas. My cousin told me that. It seems that her newest décolleté had finally driven young Louis mad.
And you'd better disappear in the colonies for a while. It's a great occasion to calm your conscience and visit your poor father.
Save yourself, darling, and remember that I will be waiting for you. I hope that these trinkets will smooth a bit the sadness of our parting.
P.S. Be careful and don't forget your little Lulu. They say that the girls in the Caribbean get really passionate under the Southern sun... Oh, look at me, I am jealous already!
Paris, 24th 1654

#QUEST Chad_Mary_letter
Letter to Mary Casper from Chad Kapper
#TEXT 1

... my plan will work and Alan will be revenged. We all will gain from his death. You, me, Narwhals. You should eliminate Cyclops when he does the job. Do it when you'll be paying him. Don't take a risk, just shoot him from behind. We will leave his black corpse and the rifle on Rivados territories. No one would doubt that niggers killed Dodson. Narwhals will unite with Shark's men and we will end those niggers. You and I will rule the Island - as a king and a queen.
#TEXT 2

... it's the last warning, you stupid girl. Do you really think that I will leave you alone just like that after I've told you details of my plans to kill Shark? No, sweetie, we are bonded now and you will do what you must - pay for the rifle, take the key, and prepare our dear Giuseppe...
... you bear a grudge against me for Alan's death, but understand, pretty one, gossips about Shark's 'involvement' in Alan's death worked for my purpose well. Narwhals now stand against him. That is why I was able to make friends among them and prepare this assassination. There was no hope for you with this Milrow, he would rot in his cage anyway...
... I advise you to accept that you will belong to me and only to me, I will treat any of your boyfriends the same way I did with Alan. I don't need any big and pure love from you, silly, I need you and I will get what I want. Don't think me being a monster, no, when Steven is dead and I become the admiral, I swear, you will get whatever you want...
... think about it. If you don't show yourself on 'Tartarus' before eleven p.m., then you won't see the dawn. I have loyal men among Narwhals and they will cut your guts in a second right in your cabin. Don't even hope that those smart locks or your pretty face will save you from a saber. Understand this, Mary: either you stay with me and own this Island or you will feed crabs with your beauties...
Chad.

#QUEST Letter_Facio
Giuseppe's Explanations
#TEXT 1

... that letter to Dodson was written under great pressure from his boatswain and mad girl Mary. They had strong arguments - the gun in my face. I couldn't resist this couple even if I were younger. I had to obey and become a part of their dirty plan...
... Chad and Mary got a small group of accomplices who want Shark dead. When Dodson gets inside my cabin, they will attack him and he won't stand a chance. Good Lord, be merciful to his soul!
... I don't want to participate in this madness. I don't care who will win this fight. Kapper is a dangerous snake and he luckily won't leave any witness alive. And even if the admiral lives, then, I suppose, he won't show mercy to poor Giuseppe. That is why I am going to leave this letter here, hoping that the admiral's men will find it. I am out of this game, I will hide in the place where neither Kapper nor his bitch will be able to find me. I will stay there for a while until this mess is over...

#QUEST Letter_valet
Letter to David Fackman also known as Knive
#TEXT 1

David, wait for the Barbazon man, send him to Marcus with a fable about Turks.
Stay away from this, Tyrex may guess that the messenger was sent to trick him. Let the Barbazon man take the risk. I am sorry for making you wait but we need Jacques' involvement in the elimination of his competitor. This will bond him with blood. So let his fellow be noticed at La Vega.
Check the trap again. Tyrex will rush into it, no doubt, he will personally get aboard the brigantine. Examine gunpowder and marksmen on the shore. It must be smooth and clear.
Ghoul and Prowler are waiting for you in the Northern bay. They will follow your commands. They know the polacre well. Prowler has got my additional instructions on what to do in case Tyrex will be able to survive.
Barbazon will be on our side as soon as Tyrex is done. Making Black Pastor loyal to us will be our next goal. Think about killing Forest Devil. This man is unreasonable.
The boss wants to give Isla Tesoro to the British and make coins. Not this time, fuck him. Hangman is dead but my men are close to getting the girl. Be careful about Charles de Maure. He works for Svenson and he has become a great pain in my butt. It looks like that he has the girl. I don't know his plans yet.
We are close, soon the Brethren will be ours. Remember, brother, you are the only man I trust. So be careful and don't risk too much.
Jacob.

#QUEST Letter_jess
Jessica Rose's Notes
#TEXT 1

several poems written by Jessica's hand, it looks like she really loved Butcher even after he cheated on her with Beatrice

... I see the 'Neptune' masts! She is damaged but it works for me. Soon I will see this little whore who has taken everything from me.

... I am calm! I am absolutely calm! Vengeance!

12th April 1636, 78 degrees. 33' West

#QUEST Letter_beatriss
Beatrice Sharp's Letter to Her Brother Blaze
#TEXT 1

My dear brother, forgive me!
I love Lawrence Beltrop and I have chosen him myself. My beloved one was forced to be a pirate and an outcast, to be captain Butcher. He deserves more, injustice poisoned him, yet it failed to destroy the best of the man. I hope that one day we will return to Europe and family life will heal him.
One thing can speed up our return. Blaze, you are an uncle now! We have a daughter, Helen. Perhaps, she might restore our family. Trust me, Lawrence didn't know a thing about his father's betrayal. He shouldn't answer for his father's actions. Even more, he always admired our father and he always knew that there were his friends in the Caribbean. Don't ruin our friendship, listen to your heart. Lawrence is the father of my daughter, so he is your relative now.
P.S. Little Helen is not with me now. We have left her in Belize with her wet-nurse Gladys Chandler. She seems like a kind woman. If I... well, let's not. I will send you the letter as soon as I can.
Your beloved sister, Beatrice.

#QUEST Letter_Mishelle
Letter from Michel de Monper
#TEXT 1

My dear brother!
I can imagine your emotions after reading this letter. But for me, there is nothing here to do. I have been staying here long enough. My life has been devoted to a great purpose since I was born and, of course, I can't tell you about it. Everything I have done had the only reason, the only goal. My imprisonment though wasn't a part of the plan. Yet you were able to fix this little complication. Thank you.
I don't need my name anymore. De Monper. Nor do I need my past and the Maltese Order. I have paid my debts to the country by helping you to defend Saint Pierre. A New Era is coming, there will be no room for such little things.
Don't try to search for me. I know you will, but I want you to realize: it is worthless and dangerous. Return to France, to your father. From where I see it, you have got enough coin and your naval talents will serve you well. Don't hesitate, Caribs are going to be changed once and for all. And you ain't going to like it.
Farewell.

#QUEST Letter_Vincento
Letter from Padre Vincento
#TEXT 1

Greetings, Captain Charles de Maure.
I am perfectly aware of you and your actions. And I appreciate your offer, even considering your service for enemies of Spain. The Roman Catholic Church can use help from any Catholic-Christian who is eager to help us, despite his nationality and position. Especially when there is a threat to all of Christendom.
Nevertheless, before I receive you in my place, you will have to prove the purity and sincerity of your actions. Listen now, my son.
They should have delivered three beautiful and expensive items to our Santiago parish right from Spain. A golden ostensory, a ring cross with lazurite, and a golden censer. I am trying to make it the best parish across all the New World. Galleon 'Santa Margarita', which was carrying those items, was boarded not far from Espanola shores by some French privateer. He captured the galleon, stole our holy items, and even killed a lay brother who made an attempt to protect them. It can't go unpunished. Find the cursed criminal, capture him, and bring him alive to the hands of the Holy Inquisition. You should also find and return all stolen items. Report to the lighthouse master, avoid talking to Spanish soldiers. If you do what I ask, then I will tell you details concerning the matter you are interested in.
His Reverence, Inquisitor, Padre Vincento.

#QUEST Letter_Vincento_next
Second Letter from Padre Vincento
#TEXT 1

May God bless you, my son!
Well done for delivering this heretic to us. The poor soul has already repented his sins and is ready to expiate. He told us where our items are. I am gladly telling you this information. The censer and ostensory were sold to the banker of Willemstad. The cross was gifted to Basse-Terre's parish to wash away their own sins. Good luck and may God watch over you!
His Reverence, Inquisitor, Padre Vincento.

#QUEST Letter_Vincento_last
Third Letter from Padre Vincento
#TEXT 1

Greetings, my son. I hope that you will read this and won't let your anger get over you.
Alonso de Maldonado disobeyed my orders and my will. He should have joined you but not to fight. Pride and desire for revenge are bad companions for the warrior of Christ. This caballero has deeply upset me.
Yet I hope that you will see the truth and you'll understand that I was always on your side. We share the same goal. It is great and good - to save our world and prevent the evil from winning this battle. Now you have a powerful weapon against the Indian demon - his artifact. You, and only you, can lead the army of Christ.
I ask you to meet me, Charles de Maure. To guarantee my kind intentions, I offer you to meet me in neutral territories, on Curacao. There is a cemetery not far from Willemstad. Find me there. I will be waiting for you for two weeks. I hope that you will make the right decision. I assure you that I will not harm you, I only want to help you. Remember, my son, the fates of all good Christians are in your hands.
His Reverence, Inquisitor, Padre Vincento.

#QUEST Letter_Dichoso
Letter from Miguel Dichoso to Arturo Lopez
#TEXT 1

Arturo, prepare yourself for the upcoming meeting. Charles is a serious man. Place your men smartly in order to prevent him from escaping. Take your best soldiers and don't forget about marksmen. Don't leave him any single chance. Round the cemetery in case somehow he will be able to leave the crypt. The only thing I ask is to let him die with honor as a soldier. May his death be quick and painless. Go and see me when you are done. I will give you your reward and further instructions.
Miguel Dichoso.

#QUEST ArchyBook
Archibald Calhoun's Diary - Selected Fragments
#TEXT 1

... I knew that staying on the ship was lethal so I took a barrel with water and a few of my belongings with that compass which I got from the Indian. Perhaps, this artifact will save me...
... I was damn happy when I saw the shore. But it was just a small uninhabited island. I have never heard about it. The magic compass is screwing me again...
... I failed to find any people here. Just thinking about it, I might be lucky after all, to be eaten by savages is not the best option...
... thank God, there is fresh water, turtles, and crabs. Crabs are crawling on the shore. There are so many of them, so I decided to call this place - the Crab island... I am a discoverer, so to speak...
... The fate was again kind to poor Calhoun - found a toolbox on the shore. Now, I have got a decent axe and a saw, so I can start building a house, there is a probability to stay here for the rest of my life...
... months have passed and there were not a single sail. I made a bonfire on the top of the hill to light it as soon as I see any vessel. But what if it would be Spanish vessel? In that case, I will find myself in the hands of the Inquisition...
... building the house is in progress... I managed to create a decent hut. Anyway, it will protect me from rain and sun just fine...
... Every morning I fish. Sometimes I get some big ones with a crafted harpoon. I had a great fight today with a shark. It was close to eating good Archie, but my hands do miracles, so good Archie will eat a shark instead. The meat was good, but I would give all my coins for some pork and an ale...
... my house is ready. I nailed a shark skull under the entrance. My hunting trophy. Eh, all gold in the world for a barrel of whiskey!..
... Year and a half. I got used to the life of a hermit. But I keep hoping to return back to the Outer World...
... sails! Thank God - sails! And the vessel looks British. They are not Spanish! My bonfire is ready and I will try to make as much smoke as I can...
... they have noticed me! The vessel is coming. I see the English flag. I am rescued!
... it is impossible... this is Willy Paterson! My old friend and a countryman, Scottish Willy! Old Calhoun can't hold his tears, after two years he is hearing his own language!...
... I will serve under Willy's command. If it wasn't him - I would have stayed there forever. I had enough of my adventures, Indian amulets, questionable treasures, and Jesus Order. I am starting a new life. I left my compass inside my hut. May it stay there, worthless and dangerous item...
... I am leaving Crab island. Its green hill almost disappeared at the horizon. I will remember its location forever - 16 degrees North, 71 degrees West. I doubt that my foot will step on it again...

#QUEST SQCapBook
Journal of 'Santa Quiteria', the Last Pages
#TEXT 1

... finally we have reached San-Jose. We are going to get food and water here. It seems that Miguel Dichoso doesn't understand that we are sailing to Europe. His behavior is strange: he is waiting for something, ready and strained. The Baron warned me that Dichoso is extremely dangerous - I must be careful...
... I am surprised that Dichoso was the only conquistador who survived that expedition to Tayasal. Some say that his surname proves itself - 'lucky one'. I don't think so. His eyes are way too tough. Oh, no, of course not, neither illness nor Indian poison had killed the survivors but a blade and a pistol of Dichoso...
... sailing to Tobago. We will say our goodbyes to Miguel there. And I will be able to breathe freely again. I doubt that it will be easy to get rid of him. This man always gets what he wants. How does he do such things? Selling 'Santa Quiteria' twin 'San Martin' to that heretic Dodson without any suspicions? Killing Blaze Sharp, crossing up Dodson and causing the Brethren to fight with one another? How was he able to find Tayasal and leave it with treasures while other well-trained and ideally prepared expeditioners were eliminated by the Itza?..
... not far from Tobago. Dichoso is looking dismal, strained but calm. The scar on his face became red. Miguel is waiting for something, watching the sky and horizon. Whatever, soon we will get rid of him.
... it's supernatural... The strongest storm rushed on us and now it is taking our ship somewhere East. The frigate is uncontrollable. Dichoso staggers me. There is a grin on his face and it looks like the storm doesn't frighten him at all...
... Trinidad is behind us. Waves and wind are taking us northwest. We can't do anything...
... good news is that the giant wave had washed away Dichoso while we were passing Martinique. Now we are free from this terrible man. Perhaps, it is a good sign?..
... damn it, there never were any islands in this part of the Caribs. We were thrown at the bank. Not everyone made it though a lot of us are still alive. Our ship was broken in two pieces, but she is still here, stuck in the sands. The storm is not ending...
... we explored a shore and a bay. The island is unknown and uninhabited. But it is not the worst part. This place is creepy and it's always storming here. It seems that the sun was never lighting this place. Cursed island...
... Itza's treasures were washed away from our cargo hold. They are everywhere now, we took some of them from the water. Forbidding cliffs surround the bay. The only way leads to a flooded grotto. There is a hole that leads inside an underwater cave though no one was brave enough to explore it...
... two sailors didn't return back to the bay. We have found their dead bodies in the grotto. Both of them were murdered with a sword. Who could possibly do that? We buried them right there and started to organize a night watch.
... mysterious murders are still happening. Three men for three days. Victims of some invisible butcher with a sword. People are scared. There is no escape from this place. God, help us!..
... this place is cursed! It was the most terrible thing I've seen in my life. I was ready for everything but this! Those who were killed by the butcher are back and attacking survivors. Now we burn bodies...
... prays were not listened to. I am in panic. Damned Miguel Dichoso - all this is because of him! I am confident, it is not a coincidence!..
... a night of nightmares. Finally, we saw the night murderer. It is a huge skeleton with a large sword. He kills any man with one or two hits, our blades and bullets deal no damage. He is absolutely invincible! After worthless tries to fight him, me, our quartermaster, and three sailors decided to retreat back to the sea and get inside of 'Santa Quiteria' debris. We had been hearing horrible cries of men being murdered at the shore for several hours...
... undead own the shore. They walk, make terrible noises and deliver the awful smell of decaying flesh. We have locked ourselves inside the ship's cargo hold. Now we are listening to steps of that giant monster and the rumbling of walking dead...
... the quartermaster has gone completely insane. He used Tayasal things to make some sort of pagan altar. He is going hysterical, calling Indian gods, demons... I don't get it. Sailors are sitting in corners, listening to his mad screaming...
... heavy sword hits are destroying the door. The Butcher is coming here. No barricade can stop him. I understand that we will die soon, this thing is unstoppable. I am writing this while hearing madman calling his pagan demons and cries of sailors, they realize that they are doomed. I am ready to die. If you are reading this - get away from this terrible place! Treasures of Tayasal... Dichoso... Dichoso... CURSE YOU!..

#QUEST RingCapBook
Notes from 'Santa Lucia' Journal
#TEXT 1

... Now we are sailing from Caracas along the shore to an Indian village, they had been preparing copra personally for me. I will buy it avoiding taxes and price markups...
... there was some festive occasion that day. A high chief from the neighboring village was invited and so were his relatives. A lot of kashirie was drunk. And then I saw her - she was the beauty itself. I realized that she is the one who will be my wife...
... her name is Vavaya, it turned out that she is the youngest daughter of the high chief. I talked to her and presented some gifts. And it seems that my courting was well received...
... I will stay here for a bit longer. Copra is being loaded on my ship and I keep knowing young Vavaya. I fell in love with her. Thank God she feels the same! I am the happiest man! I am preparing a ransom for her, according to local traditions...
... her father refused! He didn't accept my generous gifts and literally threw me away from his hut. I saw tears on the cheeks of my beloved - she also wants to be with me! So it is settled then! I won't let any savage, even her father, ruin our happiness...
... Vavaya is insisting to sacrifice some jewels to her tribe's gods in order to receive their support. I agreed, when we arrive in New Spain, she will eventually forget about her pagan traditions and become a true Christian. And now we have to go...
... white man would never be able to find this sacred place. I could die a thousand times without Vavaya - she was showing me every trap, pike, and poisoned pin...
... that is incredible! I have never seen so much gold! There were egg-sized nuggets! Even half of these treasures would be enough to be rich for the rest of your life. Vavaya was objecting but I was able to persuade her... I even doubled my sacrifice to calm down my love...
... only two weeks later me, my first mate, and a quartermaster delivered Indian gold to our ship in a covered carriage. Nobody else knows that so far. I don't trust sailors. Besides, the crew was angry because of staying two weeks near wild shores, I had to do that to sneak away from Vavaya's father...
... we took the gold at night and hid it inside one of the copra boxes. We've also put some copra on the top to cover it. Finally, we are sailing again. Two weeks more and we will reach New Spain. Vavaya and I will marry in the church. We were made for each other and we will stay together until we die...
... it's the third day of dead calm. The vessel is barely moving. I can see those scowling glances from ignorant sailors, they look at my beautiful Vavaya and consider her a bad sign...
... one sailor dropped a flask with arsenic while dealing with rats in the cargo hold. I still don't get it. Fifty gallons of water are spoiled. Dead calm is still killing us. My beloved one is praying for her god's forgiveness, she is seriously thinking that all of this mess is our punishment for the stolen gold...
... there are already ten men dying from the sudden epidemic of fever. Sailors grumble. The boatswain barely keeps order. The first dead was thrown in water. Fresh water is almost finished. God, send us wind!
... fresh wind, at last. One-third of the men are ill. A few sailors stole a box with expensive rum last night. The boatswain punished them with a whip. The crew is really angry with me, officers, and my poor Vavaya. I don't let her go out, I fear for her life. I am looking forward to seeing Cuba, I could buy water, and hire a new crew...
... damn savages had suddenly shown from nowhere. Their schooner was no threat to my vessel with her twenty-pound cannons but my men were weak after the fever, they were barely holding shrouds. Pirate cannonballs made a few holes in our ship though there was no serious damage. We did what we could and, thank God, pirates had to retreat...
... my crew demands Vavaya's death. They think that this poor Indian woman is a witch, responsible for all our misfortunes. My loyal officers and I will protect her till the last bullet if needed. There is a smell of mutiny in the air and I don't see the shores of Cuba - no doubt that we have lost our course after the fight...
... the deck is covered in blood. The first mate and boatswain are dead, the quartermaster is wounded and he won't last long with a single musket against furious sailors. I have locked my cabin and am doing well so far. My love is standing behind, passing me charges. Her sweet face is frightened. But not by the mutineers, no. She is looking in my eyes and whispering: 'Gods' revenge!'...
... my heart is breaking! A pistol bullet pierced the door and hit the beautiful chest of my dear Vavaya. I am trying to stop her bleeding but I am not a doctor... I almost run out of ammo, my musket is the only thing which prevents them from a direct attack...
... poor Vavaya is dead. She died in calm, with a smile on her face. There was no fear in her eyes, only love and grief. I prayed for her and now I am ready to join her - there is no reason left for me to live without her... Another bullet wounded my leg. I barely move...
... the gunpowder is almost gone. I have got only four charges in a pair of two-barrel pistols. I am behind my desk, getting ready to die with honor as a white man and as a captain. The storm is coming. It is going to be really strong...
... they are breaking the door. Soon it will be over and I will meet my Vavaya in a better world. I am thinking about her. Perhaps, she was right. All of this looks like a curse. 'Gods' revenge'! Box with the gold... was it even...
 
#QUEST Recipe
Recipes
#TEXT Gold_dublon
Golden doubloons are usually kept in the trunk, with 150 pieces each.

#TEXT clock2
Charged timer: uncharged timer + hourglass

#TEXT bussol
Boussole: compass + astrolabe

#TEXT cartridge
Paper Cartridge

A remarkable innovation made by Swedish musketeers that doubles the speed of loading!

You need one bullet and one portion of gunpowder for crafting. Take a piece of paper, make a paper tube, and put some gunpowder and the bullet inside it. Craft the cartridges to the suitable size. Check the cartridge before loading.

Ingredients: Granular gunpowder, lead bullet

#TEXT powder_pellet
Petard

A stun projectile that disorients enemies without damaging property.

Take a thin sheet of copper, form it into the shape of a glass cup, and add ten portions of gunpowder. Seal the copper and insert it into the barrel. Make a hole for the fuse.

Ingredients: Copper jar, Granular gunpowder, Candle, Twine.
Tools: Metalwork tool

#TEXT grenade
Grenade

A Spanish invention perfected by the British, capable of hitting major enemy forces at a distance.

Prepare a sheet of copper and twelve bullets. Bend the sheet into the shape of a head to fit the mortar's barrel. Put some bullets inside, then ten portions of gunpowder, and seal the copper case. Make a hole in the bottom side and plug it with a wooden spool. In combat, take out the spool, insert the fuse or wick, cover it with saltpeter, and fix it with wax or the spool.

Ingredients: Copper jar, Granular gunpowder, Candle, Twine.
Tools: Metalwork tool

#TEXT harpoon
Arrow

A thin metal rod capable of piercing armor and the person inside.

Take a thin metal rod, even a simple harpoon, and cut off a piece one and a half fingers long.

Ingredients: Harpoon
Tools: Metalwork tool, Touchstone

#TEXT shotgun_bullet
Revolver Bullets

Unusual lead bullets in the shape of a cylinder with a tapered end. Very accurate, well-balanced, and deadly due to their shape.

Melt some lead on the fire, make a bullet. Put it in a rag and cool. Avoid contact with water!

Ingredients: Lead bullets
Tools: Bullet mold, Melting pot, Icon-lamp

#TEXT shotgun_cartridge
Revolver Cartridge

Used for compact storage of gunpowder and bullets for firing.

Take the thinnest paper available, cover it with gunpowder, alcohol, and wax. Dry it. Cover the bottom of the bullet with flour paste and make a sleeve in the shape of a truncated cylinder. Add some black gunpowder inside. Seal the free end and fold it. Cover the cartridge with parchment or leather. Pierce the paper bottom while loading.

Ingredients: Revolver bullet, Revolver gunpowder
Tools: Sartorial set, Candle

#TEXT GunCap_colt
Capsules

Disposable, placed on the gun nipples one by one. Used for igniting the charge in the bolt of the revolver. Very efficient in any weather and gun position.

You need a sheet of pure copper, melting pot, chisel, and yews for crafting. Make some round pieces from the sheet of copper. Melt the wax, add silver fulminate, and put it inside the copper cylinder.

Ingredients: Copper Bar, Candles, Silver fulminate
Tools: Melting Pot, Icon-lamp, Metalwork tool

#TEXT OxyHydSilver
Silver Fulminate

The explosive used for igniting gunpowder in the cartridge.

Take a clean empty flask, add some silver, and dissolve it with nitric acid. Cover the bottleneck to keep the gas inside. Add some alcohol, heat the flask, and then add more alcohol. Shiny crystals will form on the bottom of the flask. Cool the flask in water. Remove the crystals, rinse with water, and dry. Store carefully and avoid using too many ingredients at once to prevent explosions.

Ingredients: Silver bar, Nitric acid, Alcohol
Tools: Alchemy tools, Icon-lamp

#TEXT GunEchin
Charge of Nails

Chopped iron rods used against enemies, effective only at close range, causing stun effects. Lightweight and flies off-target, so precise aim is unnecessary. However, it can damage the barrel, so avoid using it with exquisite or long barrels.

For crafting one cartridge, chop nails or other metal scrap and fix them together with wax. Pack with gunpowder in a paper cartridge.

Ingredients: Nails, Candle, Granular gunpowder
Tools: Metalwork tool, Melting Pot, Icon-lamp

#TEXT potion2
Elixir

An Inca invention that relieves pain, removes the effect of poison, and heals wounds quickly, known as the "Stone Warrior."

Chop Ginger root, Sabadilla herb, ash of devil's weed, add saliva of a drunkard, and let it stand. Then heat it and add a healing potion.

Ingredients: Healing Potion, Ginger root, devil's weed x3, Sabadilla, Empty vial, Old mug, Candle, amber
Tools: Mortar and Pestle, Silver spoon, Alchemy chest
Quantity made: 3 pieces

#TEXT potion3
Antidote

A decoction of rare ingredients, an antidote for many local poisons. Has a disgusting taste and smell but is effective.

Add Verbena foliage to a half-filled bottle of water, some guarana seeds, allspice, ginger root, and ipecac. Seal the bottle and heat on fire. When the liquid becomes cloudy, add a big pearl. Strain the liquid after cooling.

Ingredients: Verbena, Guarana, Ipecac, Allspice, Empty vial, Big pearl
Tools: Copper jar, Wooden spoon, Icon-lamp, Mortar and Pestle, Alchemy chest
Quantity made: 3 pieces

#TEXT potion4
Mixture

This potion, based on the best apothecary recipe, not only cures poisoning but also restores health.

Grind the herbs and combine the resulting broth with a bottle of elixir.

Ingredients: Elixir, Devil's weed, Sabadilla, Verbena, Ipecac, Guarana, Jamaican pepper
Tools: Mortar and Pestle, Alchemist's Chest
Quantity made: 3 pieces

#TEXT berserker_potion
Ometochtli Tincture

Aztecs were against drunkenness. By their laws, every drunk man had to be executed. This liquid was ironically named after the Aztec god of strong beverages.

Add devil's weed, allspice, and a pint of boiling rum to an empty vial, seal it with a wax plug with emerald, and cool it.

Ingredients: Rum, Allspice, devil's weed x2, Candle, Emerald, Empty vial
Tools: Mortar and Pestle, Alchemy chest

#TEXT mangarosapower
Tidal Wave

A unique potion made of rare weed Manga Rosa, by Amelia's recipe, increases your power, endurance, and battle skills. The effect lasts 2 days.

Add Manga Rosa foliage, Ipecac, and Ginger root to a Copper jar. Add a pint of rum and let it stand for a few hours. Then add three small pearls and amber, and heat it on low fire. Cool the liquid, strain it, and seal the bottle.

Ingredients: Manga Rosa, Ipecac, Ginger root, Rum, Small pearl x3, Amber, Empty vial
Tools: Alchemy chest, Icon-lamp, Copper jar

#TEXT mangarosafast
Squall

A unique potion made of rare weed Mangarosa, by Amelia's recipe, increases your reaction and sharpness of senses, and battle skills. The effect lasts 2 days.

Add Mangarosa foliage, Verbena, and Guarana to a Silver jar. Add some wine, two big pearls, and amber, and let it stand for a few hours. Strain the liquid and seal the bottle.

Ingredients: Mangarosa, Verbena, Guarana x2, Good Wine, Big pearl x2, Amber, Empty vial
Tools: Alchemy chest, Silver spoon, Silver jar, Mortar and Pestle

#TEXT mangarosatotal
Sea Hug

A unique potion made of rare weed Mangarosa, by Amelia's recipe, increases your power, endurance, reaction, sharpness of senses, charisma, speechcraft, luck, and battle skills. The effect lasts 2 days.

Add Mangarosa foliage to a mug. Add a healing potion, two big pearls, and three small ones, a piece of blue amber, and heat it on low fire. Cool the liquid, place it in a clean bottle, and seal it.

Ingredients: Mangarosa, Big pearl x2, Small pearl x3, Blue amber, Empty vial
Tools: Alchemy chest, Wooden spoon, Mug, Mortar and Pestle, Icon-lamp

#TEXT totem_01
'Booming Voice' Talisman

Battle experience and faith can work miracles.

Take a metal mug, put some silver into it. Heat it, then cool, and add strong rum. Put an amethyst in the center. Place blue amber on the cheek and cover the mug with your own shadow. Then throw out the rum and spit out the stone. The best time for the ritual is midnight. It's a very strong talisman.

Ingredients: Bottle of rum, Old Mug, Silver nugget, Amethyst
Tools: Icon-lamp

#TEXT totem_02
'Ankle Biter' Talisman

It will make your crew obey and respect their captain. Sometimes good reprisal is the best way to show rebels their possible future and make them fear.

Untwist three lashes and choose the strongest stalk. Dunk it in the liquid of rat poison, allspice, and tobacco with blue amber. Insert the ruby into the stalk from the other side.

Ingredients: Lash x3, Gold nugget x3, Ruby, Blue amber, Twine, Allspice, Tobacco, Arsenic
Tools: Sartorial set, Mortar and Pestle

#TEXT totem_03
'Cupid's Balm' Talisman

An aphrodisiac with a powerful emotional impact. Helps overcome depression, has antibacterial, antifungal, antiviral, and anti-inflammatory properties. Indispensable for frequent sex with different partners.

Put Hercules-beetle powder, bat wing powder, Guarana seeds, and small copper filings together. Heat it, then cool. Turn it into powder using hyacinth and blue amber. Add ginger root to the powder. Store in a cool dark place.

Ingredients: Hercules beetle x5, Bat wing, Guarana x3, Ginger root, Hyacinth, Blue amber, Copper Bar
Tools: Alchemy chest, Icon-lamp, Mortar and Pestle

#TEXT totem_04
Talisman of the Accomplice

A silver hoop encrusted with turquoise and rings of raw iron, providing the wearer's allegiance to the one who made the hex on it. An ancient but very efficient talisman.

Make a silver exquisite band. Take used shackles and chop some rings in the chain. Put undamaged rings in the ornament of the band. Then put the remains of the shackles into a piece of cloth and make a knot with the blue amber. Act carefully and quickly. Heat up the piece of turquoise and clench it in your fist. Fix the piece of turquoise in the center of the band. Convince the person to put the band on with their own hands. Whisper "So be it" before gifting the band. Gypsies and red-headed people can craft this talisman better.

Ingredients: Silver nugget x7, Shackles, Guarana x3, Ginger root, Hyacinth, Blue amber, Copper Bar, Candle
Tools: Metalwork tool

#TEXT totem_05
'Iron Navel' Talisman

This belt helps you carry your weapon with more comfort and protects you from stunning effects during battle.

Take the belts you like and put them together. Add some rings and holders. Make the buckle from a big piece of bone - the tortoise shell suits well. Fix the clasp to it, with a small blue amber and jade. Whisper standing in front of the mirror: "The stone is hard, the metal is hard, - so is the spirit." The talisman is effective while you stand on your feet. Avoid mighty blows.

Ingredients: Leather belt x3, Tortoise-shell comb, Iron bar, Jade, Blue amber
Tools: Metalwork tool, Mirror

#TEXT totem_06
'Gonter' Talisman

An all-purpose spell for your favorite shoes. Maybe it's only self-hypnosis... but it works.

Take an old shoe, remove the insole. Put Hercules beetle inside the insole, put the package on the copper bar, and put blue amber into your fist and smash the package. Ignite the leather with sparks from the chrysoprase. Put the cinder into a clean flask. Smash the flask with your heel when you need to walk some miles with a heavy load.

Ingredients: Old shoe, Hercules beetle, Empty vial, Copper bar, Chrysoprase, Blue amber
Tools: Flint

#TEXT totem_07
'Minstrel' Talisman

A skilled bard won't like silver strings: too fragile and impractical. But untutored listeners will definitely like the silver sounds of an expensive lute in the hands of a gallant adventurer. Rumors about miserliness and bloodiness would seem less important.

Craft some silver strings using wax and wood branches. Surround yourself with blue amber and lapis lazuli. Think about your listeners while melting the wax. Then heat the silver and make a round disk with a hammer. Make a thin spiral cut to form strings.

Ingredients: Silver nugget x5, Lapis lazuli, Blue amber
Tools: Metalwork tool, Icon-lamp

#TEXT totem_08
'Lord of Fire' Talisman

Maya's Lord of the Heaven called Itzamna. The Indians are too scared to say his name the wrong way. Itzamna represents the power of fire. The people under his goodwill love to live and often have great inspiration and enthusiasm. This amulet is part of the ritual of Itzamna. Only the person who has taken someone's life can perform the ritual.

Take the tobacco pipe, a piece of fire Opal, and blue amber. Take tongs, stones, and a big portion of devil's weed. Kindle the brazier and put a gold nugget in it, blow on the flames holding blue amber in your teeth. Fan the brazier with the devil's weed. Then put some of this weed on the brazier and spit the amber into it. Add the arsenic and fire Opal. When it cools, take the opal out of the cinder and put it inside the pipe. This is your talisman. Ensure the pipe faces the sky while wearing the amulet.

Ingredients: Devil's weed x3, Porcelain pipe, Twine, Gold nugget, Fire Opal, Blue amber
Tools: Metalwork tool

#TEXT totem_09
'Arguzin' Talisman

Good teamwork is crucial for victory. That's why a boatswain is an important crew member, always having loud and furious commands in stock.

Craft a platinum ball and put it into a Boatswain's pipe. Put blue amber under the right heel and aquamarine under the left. Hold the bugle close to your chest. Turn south and pray.

Ingredients: Boatswain's pipe, Platinum bar, Aquamarine, Blue amber
Tools: Metalwork tool

#TEXT totem_10
'Widow Maker' Talisman

Spanish knight law: military valor, fierce boldness, selfless service to the lady of the heart, and veneration of the Virgin Mary. The owners of a golden pectoral cross and a piece of coral could spread the traditions of their blood.

The ritual is simple. Cut the palm of your hand in the shape of a cross, put the pectoral cross on the wound, press it with blue amber, and shut your hand into a fist. Catch one drop of blood with the blade of the knife, "feed" the blade with it, and then let the drop fall on the piece of coral. This is your artifact.

Ingredients: Clasp-knife, Golden pectoral cross, Coral, Blue amber
You can replace blue amber with a diamond (for warriors of spirit) or morion (for easy riders).

#TEXT totem_11
'Vampire' Talisman

Battle energy isn't endless - the energy of your enemies and yours. Locals believe Huitzilopochtli, the Aztec God of war, watches every fight and consumes battle energy. The ritual of power allows you to gain energy from your enemy by sacrificing his soul.

Cut off the finger with the ring of a chosen person. Devote your prey to the god: the sea for Tlaloc, the sun for Tonatiuh, the wind for Quetzalcoatl, the fire for Hiuteuktli. This artifact can shut doors, protect the hidden, and make people look away. For better results, do more. Take off the ring from the dagger and put on an opal, a meteorite, and blue amber. If you end the cycle with amber, you will drain energy from your enemies. Sew the gems into the wing and drop it to your feet before the next fight.

Ingredients: Charmed bone, Bat wing, Opal, Meteorite, Blue amber
Tools: Sartorial set

#TEXT totem_12
'The Son of Jaguar' Talisman

Aztecs loved sacrifices to honor their gods and built arenas where captives fought till the end. The claw of a Jaguar was always considered a lucky talisman for hunters.

Boil this trophy in a silver jar with pearl powder, verbena, blue amber, and hyacinth for incredible accuracy. This talisman works only in dark places.

Ingredients: Jaguar's claw x1, Small pearls x5, Verbena x1, Jacinth x1, Blue amber x1
Tools: Silver jug, Mortar and Pestle

#TEXT totem_13
'Joker' Talisman

Joker is an unpredictable card, the greatest and smallest in any of the Great Arcanes. The goal of this card is to act by the will of its owner.

Paint the wheel on the table, divide it into four pieces. Take four cards from a pack and place them on the four pieces of the wheel according to the suit. Lay the Joker in the center face down. Put a candle on it. Take a piece of iron, chrysoberyl, blue amber, and a big pearl in your hand. Then blow out the candle.

Ingredients: Pack of cards, Candle, Big pearl, Iron bar, Chrysoberyl, Blue amber
You can replace blue amber with a diamond (for warriors of spirit) or morion (for easy riders).
Tools: Pen and ink



#QUEST Rome
Latin Expressions
#TEXT 1
Ab ovo usque ad mala - from feet to head
Alea jacta est - the die has been cast
Alter ego - another I
Amat victoria curam - victory favors care
Ars longa, vita brevis - art is long, life is short
Audaces fortuna juvat - fortune favors the bold
Аurеa mediocritas - golden mean
Aut vincere, aut mori - either to conquer or to die
Aut Сaesаr, aut nihil - either Caesar or nothing
Саrре diem - seize the day
Casus belli - event of war
Circulus vitiosus - vicious circle
Cogito, ergo sum - I think, therefore I am
Cognosce te ipsum - know thyself
Conditio sine qua non - without which there is nothing
Consumor aliis inserviendo - consumed in service of others
Contra spem - hope against hope
Conditio sine qua non - essential condition
Debes, ergo potes - you should, therefore you can
De gustibus non est disputandum - there is no disputing about tastes
De lingua stulla incommoda multa - silly words cause big problems
De mortuis aut bene aut nihil - say nothing but good about the dead
Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori - it is sweet and honorable to die for the fatherland
Dum spiro, spero - while I breathe, I hope
Duos lepores insequens, neutrum cepit - by chasing two rabbits, he catches neither
Dura lex, sed lex - the law is harsh, but it is the law
Epistula non erubescit - a letter doesn't blush
Errare humanum est - to err is human
Est modus in rebus - there is a middle ground in things
Ex ungue leonem - from the claw (we may judge of) of the lion
Fama clamosa - a loud rumor
Fac simile - make a similar thing
Ferro ignique - with fire and sword
Festina lente - hurry slowly
Finis coronat opus - the end crowns the work
Gloria victoribus - the glory to the winners
Gutta cavat lapidem - a water drop hollows a stone
Hic et nunc - here and now
Homo homini lupus est - man is a wolf to man
Labor omnia vincit - hard work conquers all
Littera scripta manet - the written word remains
Mala herba cito crescit - bad grass grows quickly
Memento mori - remember that you will die
Nec sutor ultra crepidam - a cobbler should stick to his last
Ne varietur - lest it should be changed
Nil desperandum - nothing must be despaired at
Non progredi est regredi - to not go forward is to go backward
Nulla dies sine linea - not a day without a line drawn
Omne minium nocet - everything in excess is dangerous
Omnia mea mecum porto - all that is mine, I carry with me
Opera et studio - work and study
Per aspera ad astra - through hardships to the stars
Per fas et nefas - right and wrong
Pigritia mater vitiorum - laziness is the mother of vice
Quilibet fortunae suae faber - every man is the architect of his own fortune
Quod licet Jovi, non licet bovi - what is permitted to Jupiter is not permitted to an ox
Radices litterarum amarae sunt, fructus dulces - the roots of sciences are bitter, the fruits are sweet
Repetitio est mater studiorum - repetition is the mother of study
Res ipsa loquitur - the thing speaks for itself
Sapienti sat - enough for the wise
Scientia potentia est - knowledge itself is power
Sine ira et studio - without anger and fondness
Si vis pacem para bellum - if you want peace prepare for war
Sol lucet omnibus - the sun shines on everyone
Suum cuique - to each his own
Tempora mutantur - the times are changing
Tertium non datur - a third is not given
Ultima ratio - the final argument
Una hirundo non facit ver - one swallow does not make spring
Usus est optimus magister - experience is the best teacher
Vae victis - woe to the conquered!
Veni, vidi, vici - I came, I saw, I conquered
Viribus unitis - united effort
Vita sine libertate, nihil - life without freedom is nothing

#QUEST	Wolfreek_Journal
Wulfric Johannsen`s log - fragments
#TEXT	1
==============================================================================================================================================================
January 30. I have captured a Spanish barque the 'Atocha' 50 miles away from Blueweld. The plunder is 1244 units of coffee. Now Heading to Blueweld.
January 31. I have successfully turned coffee into a good amount of coins. Now heading to Mosquito Bay.
************************************************************
March 1. A Spanish barquentine the 'Baliente' got my attention not far from the shores of Trinidad. She had more than 150 barrels of resin aboard. I`ve released her from this burden.
March 4. The shipbuilder of Martinique paid me well for the resin in gold and silver. Time to sail to Mosquito Bay.
************************************************************
April 15. I have captured a Dutch trade schooner the 'Hooda' not far from Port Royal. 1510 units of cacao are acquired. Heading to Port Royal now.
April 16. Filled my chests with more pesos thanks to the cacao we captured. Time to sail to Mosquito Bay.
************************************************************
June 8. I have successfully attacked and captured a courier lugger the 'San Eugenio', a property of Kumana`s governor. She had 2000 doubloons aboard. Now heading to Mosquito Bay.
************************************************************
August 22.  I have captured a fluyt the 'Santa Isavelle' not far from Dominica. She was loaded with ironwood and resin. I should address to smugglers of Willemstad in order to sell the stuff.
August 26. The deal was concluded well, the profit has lived up to my expectations. Time to sail to Porto Bello, Mosquito Bay.
************************************************************
==============================================================================================================================================================
#TEXT	2
==============================================================================================================================================================
February 15. That jeweler from Cartagena is a good man - he paid me 200 diamonds and 200 rubies for his wife. Well, he will receive her in one piece and I should go to Tortuga to see Gaspard Parmentier.
************************************************************
May 1. Our raid on pearl fishers at Boca de la Sierpe went pretty well. 598 big and 1759 small pearls have been put in our chests. 
May 2. Time to see Gaspard Parmentier.
************************************************************
July 22. I`ve located and dug out the treasure of Connie Two Pesos according to a map drawn by one of his crewmen. 15 000 pesos spent well. Plenty of jewelry and stones, Connie must had been a specialist on bankers and noble dames. Time to see Gaspard Parmentier.
************************************************************
November 10. Sold Dutch slave at Los-Teques mines for a pile of gold nuggets. Time to pay Gaspard Parmentier a visit.
************************************************************
==============================================================================================================================================================
#TEXT	3
March 9. The 'Freyja' has been loaded with planks and provisions, heading to the gord.
March 17. We`ve arrived, now it's time for unloading goods and doing repairs.
************************************************************
May 15, Jamaica, Port Royal. I should head to the gord at once. Men need to rest and they will have it in four days.
************************************************************
July 2. My Cuban adventure is over. The Spanish will remember this lesson. Now - to Cape San Antonio and then to the gord.
July 9. It's nice to be at the place where you are safe.
************************************************************
September 4. Flames! There is a Spanish squadron on the raid near Mosquitos Bay. We should head to the gord them, will be there in ten or eleven days.
************************************************************
November 20. Paid Levasseur his regular fee. Greedy bastard grabs so much doing nothing. Whatever, I am leaving this region and this life in a year or two anyway. I should head to the gord now, men must be worrying.
November 26. Here we are. Will be resting here for a couple of weeks.
************************************************************
January 11. Finally the trader has returned to Basse-Terre. Huge profits I got from this business, it was worth waiting him for more than a week. I should buy provisions and head to the gord.
January 14. Three days with a favorable wind and here we are. Fast as birds.
============================================================================================================================================================
#QUEST Ignasio_Journal
Ignacio Marco's Log - Fragments
#TEXT 1
... Joker and I had agreed upon our signals - I should raise Spanish colors if the squadron will be heading to Puerto Rico through Santo Domingo. Jolly Roger for Isla Tesoro and Turks. French colors for Tortuga and Turks.

... the Spanish have changed their schedule - their exit point from the Caribbean will be between Isla Tesoro and Turks. I've even managed to calculate the possible range of coordinates of their whereabouts during @<sMonth> @<sDay> @<sYear>: 23°0' - 23°30' North and 64°25' - 64°55' West. I should think of how to inform Joker about it to make it easier to hunt them down.

#QUEST GG_Letter_1
The Letter from Angerran de Chievous
#TEXT 1
Esteemed Charles de Maure,
A certain dame well known to you was quite saddened by your recent actions. She agreed to keep my company for a time being, even though unwillingly. I assume her feelings towards you are not mutual; however, if I am wrong, then we can make a business. Everything has a price and let's discuss it in a week in Basse-Terre of Guadeloupe. You've got ten days, not more, to make up your mind. Governor de Lyon is a good friend of mine, and he agreed to arrange our meeting.

Best regards,
Angerran de Chievous

P.S. Even though the lass is pretty, she is not to my taste, but be aware that I will force myself to overstep if it makes you feel miserable. Perhaps even tomorrow. If this issue between us is not resolved at all, I will toss her to my men; they are not so selective as we are.

#QUEST Letter_Portugal
The Letter from Bartolomeo the Portuguese
#TEXT 1
Senor de Maure,
I apologize for leaving you just like that. It was a great pleasure doing business with you; I must say that you are an exceptionally committed man. I assume the Brits will tell you about the missing parts of the story. I will not apologize for using you since it worked just fine for all of us.

It's really been a while since I last wrote elegant letters, but it is high time for the real me to return. Shame we didn't share a cup or two of good rum. Perhaps someday when our nations are closer? We have already made a first step to see that happen. Godspeed!

Sincerely yours,
Senor Bartolomeo, Baron de la Cueva

#QUEST Letter_France
A Letter from Henry de Monper
#TEXT 1
Hello, Charles.
I don't know whether this letter will reach you, and whether all the previous ones have reached, and even if it does, will you remember who it is, but I will try. I understand that brushes and paints are not easy to change to a sword, but I did not expect that it would be the most difficult with a pen. Since you left at my request in search of your brother, I have not received a single word from you or him. Over the past time, I managed to come to terms with the fact that the de Monper family was destined to break off, but imagine my surprise when I received a letter from an old acquaintance from our colonies in the New World. Even my illness stepped back a step from such news. I mourned the fate of my poor Michel, but with all my heart, I rejoiced at your successes. Yes, to see you as a naval officer, a captain, who drove his fortune to the right course, for me is just as surprising as it is joyful. But, I'm afraid, I don't have much time left for congratulations and reproaches - old age can give a delay but will not recede and will not go away. So, my son, we need to solve another, the most important thing. With this letter, which I am sending through my old friend Benoit, I am enclosing copies of documents confirming that you, Charles de Maure, are now Chevalier de Monper - my heir and continuer of our glorious family... I have to ask you one more time - you must return to the family estate. All papers are notarized, and your presence is not required to enter the inheritance and receive the title, but in order to go to God with a calm soul, I need to know that my family will not disappear after me. I don't know if you remember the La Brigne family, but Yvonne, their youngest daughter, has blossomed and is quite suitable for marriage. Her father and brother gave their prior consent, but we need to play the wedding according to all the rules. This is a worthy surname, and, as a dowry, Guillaume La Brigne is ready to offer a small vineyard just a couple of miles from our estate. You, Charles, should already have understood what duty and responsibility are; a person without this knowledge cannot stand on the bridge of a warship, and now you have the responsibility for the entire family de Monper. From now on, you are my last son and my heir. Come back to fulfill your filial duty and accept my parental blessing at the altar so that your father can leave in peace.

Full of expectations, your father. Henri de Monper.
Gascony.

#QUEST Letter_Marquesa
The Letter from Julianne Botot
#TEXT 1
Charles, I have reasons for being angry with you, you remember, and I'm still not ready to sincerely rejoice at your happiness, so let's skip the courtesies and get right to the point:
Despite our differences, I do not wish you any harm, but there are people who wish. I understand that this is not news for you. But here's what you should know - there are people that want to harm you. How and when they strike I don't know. But beware - if you are killed, it will not bring me happiness.

D.B.

#TEXT 2
Charles, I have reasons for being angry with you, you remember, and I'm still not ready to sincerely rejoice at your happiness, so let's skip the courtesies and get right to the point:
Despite our differences, I do not wish you any harm, but there are people who wish. I understand that this is not news for you. But here's what you should know - there are people that want to harm you. How and when they strike I don't know. But beware - if you are killed, it will not bring me happiness.

D.B.

P.S. I'll clarify - if you are killed, maybe I'll even drop a tear. But we better not check it.

#TEXT 3
Dear friend, can I call you that? I'm not in town right now and I won't be able to congratulate you personally, but please, accept my best wishes. Yes, imagine! The courtesans after all believe in love, and I want to think that you have found your own. I am grateful to you for bringing this faith in me, and it will warm me for many years. Be happy; you deserve it!

Your good friend.

P.S. And now to the point - you understand, I would not have bothered you without a reason. Beware of the good man. Not everyone around you sees a reason for joy in your wedding. Keep the gun handy and alert. I worry for you and wish you happiness again.

#TEXT 4
Dear friend, can I call you that? I'm not in town right now and I won't be able to congratulate you personally, but please, accept my best wishes. I do not urge you to remember me - this is ridiculous, agree, but know - I will carry the memories of you in my heart until my last day. Be happy wherever you are!

Your good friend.

P.S. And now to the point - you understand, I would not have bothered you without a reason. Beware of the good man. Not everyone around you sees a reason for joy in your wedding. Keep the gun handy and alert. I worry for you and wish you happiness again.

#TEXT 1-1
Charles, I have reasons for being angry with you, you remember, and I'm still not ready to sincerely rejoice at your happiness, but I'll try. Be happy and stay safe.

D.B.

#TEXT 2-1
Charles, I have reasons for being angry with you, you remember, and I'm still not ready to sincerely rejoice at your happiness, but I'll try. Be happy and stay safe. I'll clarify - if you are killed, maybe I'll even drop a tear. But we better not check it.

D.B.

P.S. I'll clarify - if you are killed, maybe I'll even drop a tear. But we better not check it.

#TEXT 3-1
Dear friend, can I call you that? I'm not in town right now and I won't be able to congratulate you personally, but please, accept my best wishes. Yes, imagine! The courtesans after all believe in love, and I want to think that you have found your own. I am grateful to you for bringing this faith in me, and it will warm me for many years. Be happy; you deserve it!

Your good friend.

#TEXT 4-1
Dear friend, can I call you that? I'm not in town right now and I won't be able to congratulate you personally, but please, accept my best wishes. I do not urge you to remember me - this is ridiculous, agree, but know - I will carry the memories of you in my heart until my last day. Be happy wherever you are!

Your good friend.

#QUEST	IslaMonaData
Isla Mona: construction
#TEXT	1
To strengthen, improve, and build new houses: 1000 planks, 500 bricks, 200 leather bundles, 300 pieces of sailcloth, 50 barrels of resin, and 200 sets of clothing.
Construction period: 6 months.

#TEXT	2
To build a pier, clear the bay, and install lighting. It will allow accommodating three ships of 3-6 ranks or one ship of 1-2 ranks.
Materials needed: 300 planks, 50 bricks, 150 pieces of sailcloth, 20 barrels of resin.
Construction period: 4 months.
************
To convert the first floor of your house into a tavern, build furniture and a kitchen, and stock the cellar with alcohol. It will allow accommodating up to 300 people on the island as reserves.
Materials needed: 200 planks, 200 bricks, 100 leather, 50 pieces of sailcloth, 10 barrels of resin, 1000 rum, 1000 wine.
Construction period: 3 months.
************
To build a factory, clear the site, organize housing and security for the workforce, and establish a warehouse for the materials.
Materials needed: 500 planks, 250 bricks, 200 leather, 100 pieces of sailcloth, 30 barrels of resin.
Additional items: 15 shackles, 1 musket (any).
Construction period: 6 months.
************
#TEXT	3
To build a church, bringing harmony to Isla Mona and delighting us, the settlers.
Materials needed: 300 planks, 100 bricks, 10 barrels of resin, 20 ironwood, 100 mahogany.
Additional items: 50 gold nuggets, 100 candles, 30 amber, 1 blue amber.
Construction period: 2 months.

#QUEST ChickenGodOptionalQuests
Aruba's List
#TEXT 1
Aruba's Exclusive Trade Proposition! Valuables and a clear conscience in exchange for enhancing your mortal body, Captain (name)!

First Task:

I am sorry to inform you, but I'm quite married. The only hitch is, the governor, her husband, remains blissfully unaware, hehe. I have a soft spot for Castilians, so let's keep it professional. Inform the senora that she has an appointment at an ancient pagan pyramid and escort her here.

Second Task:

The sea can be merciless to certain souls, leaving them in captivity or adrift. It's imperative that we rescue these poor people, so gather me with a group of thirty of them. Don't ask me why; just get them.

Third Task:

I'm in dire need of an attire befitting Italian craftsmanship. My current wardrobe falls short, so acquire something for me to wear please.

Fourth Task:

Adder stones tend to vanish frequently and I can't seem to have enough of them. You know what to do.

#QUEST	Guide_AtSea
Tutorial: At Sea
#TEXT	1
The pier is the heart of any port. I used to sail in the past, so let me tell you more about seamanship.
First, remember the most important thing: don't even try to steer a vessel if you haven't got enough points in your navigation skill! When the requirement is not met, your other skills will suffer, and so will your officers'.
You will fight worse, shoot worse, trade worse, and so on. That means if you attempt to steer a man-of-war with your current navigation skill, you will not get far, and the ship will handle like a large wooden tub.
At the moment, you can handle a tartane or a long boat. But you can - and should - hire a navigator. Normally they can be found in taverns along with other mercenaries.
Always check their skill level first. If it is not high enough for your ship, you will experience the very same problems I mentioned before.
************************************************************
The ship's rank determines it. For example, I am experienced enough (45 points) to control a 4th-rank vessel without penalties. Brigs, barkentines, fluyts, xebecs, and corvettes require more, so I won't be able to use them properly. These are not even second-rank ships like frigates and heavy galleons.
As for giant ships of the line or men-of-war... only experts in navigation can control such monsters. It takes years to master the skill and don't forget the money. A battleship and her crew can empty your purse in a month if you are not as rich as King Louis himself.
Mind your officer positions. A boatswain trains your crew and makes boarding more effective, a purser will perform financial activities in your place and rid your ship of rats. A surgeon heals your wounded men and lowers the number that die in battle, a carpenter repairs any damage done to the ship, and vanguards save your skin when pirates start swarming your deck. Pay attention to the skills of candidates and their reputation.
************************************************************
Every man has one. It shows a man for what he really is.
If you are an honorable man and always try to do good, then look for officers who share your ideals. And if you want to be a pirate... well, you get the idea. Honest folks will not work for scum; the opposite is also true.
Now let's talk about types of ships. There are two types: Merchantmen and warships. Merchantmen or trade ships have large cargo holds and tend to be slower. Warships are fast and have strong guns, at the expense of cargo capacity. Barques, fluyts, and carracks are good, solid trade ships. Luggers, brigs, and corvettes are warships. There are hybrids of course, ships that are suitable for both trading and fighting: snows, schooners, and galleons. Ships also have different rigging arrangements; some are mostly square rigged and some are mostly fore-and-aft rigged, which form the ship's best off-bow angle.
Off-bow angle determines how your rigging is affected by the wind and on which course your vessel will make the best speed she is capable of. Once you are at sea, find the arrow on the mini-map; that will be your off-bow angle.
************************************************************
Next, your crew. You and your ship are nothing without the men who man it. Every sailor must know how to do three things: deal with rigging, operate cannons, and fight. Every nation excels only in one of these three activities. For example, Spain has the best fighters in the world, and their boarders wear armor, so grapeshots, slicing, and stabbing are not quite as effective against them. I am talking about small arms, of course; cannon grape shots don't give a damn about body armor.
Visit the taverns of Spain, England, and France if you want to make a dream crew. Watch your men's morale, provide them with rum, whores, and coin on a regular basis. Do that, and your men will die for you. Fail to do so, and they'll mutiny. A motivated professional is worth ten rookies in a fight. Also, don't forget about a physician, or develop your own medicine skills to prevent extra casualties.
Now a few words about naval battles. The Caribbean is dangerous, crawling with Spanish patrols and pirates, so eventually, you will engage them in the open sea.
************************************************************
 Ship cannons use four types of ammo: Round shot, grape shot, chain shot, and bombs.
Round shot is all-purpose and the cheapest to buy; they also have the biggest effective firing range. They tear the enemy's sails, destroy their hull, and kill their crew.
Chain shot has a decent range of fire; their purpose is to eliminate an enemy's rigging to slow them down. They are good to use when you want to chase or flee. If you are lucky, you may even take down a whole mast.
Bombs. Use them if you want to sink your opponent's vessel. Bombs do the biggest damage to the hull, but they have the second-shortest range of fire, so you need to come closer first, which may prove fatal. They also cost the most of all shells.
Grape shots are your best choice if you want to board and capture an enemy's ship. These nasty little buggers wipe out people, but the shortest firing range makes them risky to use. But it can be worth it.
Hold your fire if you are not sure whether you can deal enough damage. Every volley comes at the price of gunpowder and cannons' condition. They can explode sometimes, especially if you shoot too often. Always maneuver, try to take a better position related to the wind. If the enemy is too dangerous, and you can't flee, try to provoke them to shoot you constantly from a distance without taking damage. This trick will eventually empty their gunpowder supplies. It may take days, so you'd better find cover like rocks or a coastal line. Of course, such tactics will not work in the open sea.
Mines. Also a fine way to sink them all. Taunt them to chase you and drop mines. Every mine requires a decent amount of powder, but even one mine can almost destroy a lugger.
************************************************************
Get a spyglass and use it to observe your enemy and increase a disctance of the 'Sail to' fast travel ability. A good spyglass will provide you with a fine tactical overview regarding the presence of musketeer units on your opponent's vessel, for instance. Enemy musketeers can mow down a lot of your men on deck, so be sure to give them a whiff of grape shot before boarding.
Godspeed, Captain!


#QUEST	Guide_OnLand
Tutorial: On Land
#TEXT	1
The city gates lead straight to the jungles of the island interior, the final border of civilization - such as it is. By day, they are guarded by two soldiers who check everyone entering the city. At night, they are off duty. Therefore, there are two ways to get inside.
First, you can drop anchor in port and disembark on the pier. Second, if you want to be sneaky, you may land on some other bay or shore on the island and travel through the jungle to the city gates.
Sometimes you will have to visit Spanish colonies, so remember: we are at war with the Spanish, so don't even think about sailing into their port without a Spanish flag raised; otherwise, the fort will open fire immediately and turn your ship into matchwood. You need to master special skills and exercise caution to get inside hostile settlements. Know that the only way to safely drop anchor in Spanish ports is to learn a perk named 'raise the Spanish flag' or 'raise the Dutch flag'.
************************************************************
Such tricks require time and experience to learn. 'Raising the flag' doesn't mean merely raising some yellow and red rag, but conducting various masking measures to blend in. The chance of successful deception depends on the level of your stealth skill, class, and the number of ships in your fleet. It is easy to make a single small sloop seem like a Spanish vessel, but the same cannot be said about five frigates armed to the teeth! If you are unable to trick the fort guards and port officers, you should consider sneaking through the city gates as I mentioned before. Wait until night to avoid guards and enter. Avoid any soldiers patrolling in the city, especially at night. Find a tavern, rest there until morning, and go about your business. Don't fight soldiers if you are compromised; run into an empty house to lose them and stay there for half an hour. This will make them stop hunting you. Sneaky, isn't it? If you aren't up for that bravado, buy a trading license from the Dutch. It will spare you the trouble of sneaking around hostile territory and allow you to sail in openly.
A trading license is a document you can get at the headquarters of the Honorable Dutch West Indian Company, located in Willemstad on Curacao. It is a sign of your peaceful intentions and will allow you to enter any port until the terms have expired. But there are some downsides. First, the Company has special rules and demands that any captain willing to buy the license must follow. Second, it costs a lot. And the last and the worst, you still need a 'raising flag' perk to land at hostile ports. Otherwise, you will be shot on sight by the fort's heavy cannons.
************************************************************
Let me teach you some fencing tips.
There are three types of cold steel: light, medium, and heavy. Every type requires different skills and abilities to master, so you will have to learn them separately. Every class has its benefits and drawbacks.
Light weapons, including foils and rapiers, have low energy requirements but deal the least amount of damage.
A heavy weapon, such as an axe, can kill with a single blow, though it will exhaust your energy quickly, and you may have to rest in between strikes.
Medium weapons, such as sabres or cutlasses, are the middle ground, combining good weight and damage potential. There are several fencing moves and tricks at your disposal: fast attack, slash attack, heavy attack, and group attack. You can also parry, feint, and block.
Fast attack is... well, fast, requires the smallest amount of energy to perform, and is excellent for long rapiers. It's mostly useless for axes. The slash attack is quite versatile, has decent speed, significant loss of energy, is good for sabres, broadswords, and axes, but not that effective with rapiers. The heavy attack is dealt from above, an excellent choice for axes, will work fine for short sabres and cutlasses, yet rapiers are simply not designed for such moves. This attack will drain a huge amount of energy, it is slow, but will deal crippling damage and ignore your enemy's blocks.
Blocking is useless against heavy attacks, and experienced opponents always have a chance to break your block. Parrying is much better; it opens up your opponent for attacks and forces him to lose energy. Several successful parries and your opponent completely loses his initiative and is forced to defend himself while you have full advantage.
Feints are tricky and risky. Fooling your opponent and immediately dealing him a quick thrust requires only a little loss of energy, but you must be concentrated, attentive, and be in rhythm of the fight. Mastering this move will demand a lot of practice from you, but it is rewarding - even professional duellists and masters of sword will fall by your hand. In order to maximize damage from every type of attack, you must use the right weapon for each. 
************************************************************
Thrust attack will perform best with long, heavy, straight rapiers or swords with a balance from 0 to 0.5. Long, curved cutlasses or sabres with a balance from 1.5 to 2 are excellent for chopping and heavy attacks. A heavy axe with a balance of 2.0 is perfect for heavy attacks, but such a weapon will require a lot of energy and skill to use. The group attack isn't worth being your primary move, it's rather defensive, but a curved, light, long cutlass with a balance around 1.25 will work wonders against groups of enemies around you. Finally, the best weapon for feint is a dagger; consider making this move your specialty. The weight of a weapon determines how much energy it will require for any attack move and it also affects the damage. Remember, that finding your perfect weapon may take some time and working on your fighting style will take even more. 
Facing several enemies at once complicates things. A decent fighter can take down a few poorly trained fools together in the open, but if there are a dozen scoundrels coming at you - avoid being surrounded at all costs, run away, find yourself a corner or some stairs, doorways, whatever, force them to fight you one by one, or two against one. They will slice you up in a second if you make a mistake, so force them to play on your terms, don't lose initiative and watch your energy. Though, I have heard about a special Indian potion which allowed masters of sword and axe to kill five or six enemies at once with a few group attacks.
Ometochtli mixture or whatever they call it. An ancient Indian recipe. Ask merchants, someone may sell it to you someday. But you must learn alchemy first in order to use the recipe...
************************************************************ Since we are already talking about potions - let me tell you about healing. If you need to fix a small wound, use a healing essence. Serious hits can be treated with a healing elixir. Healing mixtures, rum, and wine also restore your health. An antidote and mixture will do fine if you are poisoned. I also recommend ginger root; it wonderfully freshens your breath. It also heals without any side effects, unlike essences and elixirs.
Essences, elixirs, and mixtures damage your health. As I mentioned at the beginning of our small tour, it's bad. Bad health will cause drops in your skill levels, it will decrease the total amount of your health points and energy. Sleeping, sex, and a rare potion called the 'Tears of Ish-Chel' restore health if it's not ruined completely. If it is too late, visit a priest; they will help for a fee.
Firearms are the easiest. Point and shoot! Use grapeshot if there are several enemies. Get a musket or a rifle for serious encounters. Deadly damage and you can always hit people with a buttstock.
Good luck, Captain, and remember: you are always alone when you die on land.

#QUEST PZ_LongwayProshaetsya
Longway's farewell letter
#TEXT	1
Lord Captain,
It's easier to express hard truths on paper than face to face - especially when you wouldn't let Longway go when he needed it most in his life. And not even for himself, but for someone very important to him.
Still, Longway thanks you for something rare from a white man - real respect. Your respect made me defy orders and stand up to those who were supposed to be my saviors. People I once considered friends, but who, to my sorrow, never truly were.
Now Longway must go. Once he has done his duty, he will find you and return. And he will apologize then. In fact, he apologizes now for the inconvenience his departure causes.
Long ago, I made a promise and a vow - both to myself and to someone very important. More important than any other duty or promise. More important than any other person - even you, Lord Captain.
Longway hoped you would understand. But since you do not, he is forced to flee. Nevertheless, he thanks you again for your respect.
Until we meet again,
Longway

#QUEST PZ_ArchiveOneMerden
Van Merden's Archive - Summary
#TEXT	1
From around 1637, Antoon van Diemen, Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies, uncovered a new, sinister niche in the trade of human lives - the abduction of the most attractive Asian girls from the islands and, occasionally, from mainland China. These operations were not frequent mass kidnappings, but rather rare, covert forays, as any publicity would have spelled disaster. Van Diemen didn't fear the wrath of his fellow countrymen; the profits from this vile trade were immense, with beautiful, exotic women sent to the Old World to be sold to the highest bidder - nobles and wealthy merchants alike. But the real threat came from the Chinese lords, who, if they discovered the truth, would likely seek bloody vengeance with the support of other powerful allies.
To run this operation, van Diemen needed trusted accomplices. He enlisted his inner circle - men who had gathered in the region. These included his close friend and right-hand man, Joep van der Vink; Oliveiro Fermentelos, a Portuguese defector to the Dutch side; and Johan van Merden, another key player in the scheme.
For eight long years, this dark enterprise thrived, leaving a trail of ruined lives in its wake. Families of the kidnapped girls were shattered, and the mercenaries who carried out the dirty work were often eliminated to keep the operation secret. Replacing them was easy, as new recruits were always available.
But then, something went wrong. Fermentelos, who commanded these mercenary units aboard his heavy galleon Morning Star, suddenly stopped reporting to van Merden. The chain of communication broke, and the operation was in jeopardy. Just a few months later, a man named Longway entered the scene.
Chang Tu, a small-time pirate and smuggler from a village in mainland China, had his life torn apart when Oliveiro Fermentelos kidnapped his sister, Chang Xin. Driven by a twisted sense of affection, Fermentelos had made advances toward her, which she rejected. Enraged, he not only abducted her but also murdered Chang Tu's parents. Fermentelos kept this a secret, as the theft of such a valuable "commodity" could not go unnoticed, not even by his own allies.
Fueled by vengeance, Chang Tu - now known as Longway - pursued his sister's captor to Formosa, where he encountered one of van Merden's men. The decision was made to bring Longway to Johan van Merden. The plan was simple: find out what the Chinaman wanted, and if necessary, eliminate him. But Johan, sensing an opportunity, decided to help Longway - not out of kindness, but out of a desire to rid himself of a troublesome associate.
Van Merden had never trusted Fermentelos, always expecting betrayal from the cunning Portuguese. Now, with Fermentelos in the wind, Johan saw a chance to settle old scores. He believed that his other partners, van der Vink and van Diemen, were cheating him out of profits as well. So, Johan sent Longway to Batavia, hoping the Chinaman and van Diemen might kill each other. He armed Longway with a letter to his old acquaintance, Oliver Trust, demanding assistance in settling a long-standing debt.
But Johan van Merden was shocked when Longway not only survived but managed to kill both van Diemen and van der Vink. Upon returning to Formosa, Longway sought another meeting with Johan through an intermediary. Fearing that Longway had discovered the full extent of his involvement in the human trafficking ring, Johan arranged for mercenaries to ambush him on the streets. However, Longway defeated them, and Johan, ever the coward, pretended to assist him - though he kept a pistol hidden under the table during their entire conversation.
Despite his victories, Longway was no closer to finding the Morning Star or his sister's whereabouts. Desperate, he turned to van Merden once more, calling him his "first white friend." Johan, nearly laughing at the irony, masked his amusement by claiming it was simply old age making him sentimental.
In exchange for van Merden's promise to help find Fermentelos, Longway began working for him. It was Johan who gave him the name "Longway," a call sign derived from the English phrase "Long Way" - a fitting moniker for the path Longway had traveled and the journey still ahead of him, now under the command of Lucas Rodenburg.

